Exhibiting the Past
Summary: This is an exercise in analyzing what made older video games “tick” and how genres and consoles / systems evolved over time.

Learning Goals: Write critically about the history and evolution of games, including the situation of specific games within recognized game genres. Analyze the design of digital games, identifying the role of critical design variables. Identify trends and issues in the games industry.

Assignment Description: Create a digital exhibit that presents an interpretation of games history (before ~2005). Your exhibit will consist of a title, a 400-500 word introduction, and a cohesive collection of around 15 separate “artifacts” that relate to each other and help to communicate the “big idea” underlying your exhibition. Each artifact should have its own citation, a written “label” of ~250 words, and a bibliography listing the sources you used to write the label. You also need to include a summary page as described below.

When I evaluate the way the exhibit looks, I’ll be more concerned with your written work and how you link your artifacts together. Does the organization help you communicate the “big idea” behind your exhibition? Is the digital exhibit easy to navigate?

Post your exhibit using a standard web-hosting site of your choosing (I'll be using html/css/JavaScript + make sure you don't code anything since all I need help with is content)

Components

The introduction:

Museum consultant Beverly Serrell argues that the best exhibitions are guided by strong exhibit plans, which can consist of “a theme, story, or communication goal” that “sets the [exhibition’s] tone and limits its content.” The artifacts, labels, and interpretive techniques used within the exhibition all connect back to this plan, which can be “stated concisely as a ‘big idea.’”

The introduction statement will orient the viewer to the exhibit by introducing the “big idea,” setting the tone and providing context for your exhibition. It should be easy to read and understand. What does your viewer need to know to explore the exhibit? Is there a historical context they need to be aware of to understand the artifacts on display and the connections between them?

The artifacts:

An artifact refers to an indexical representation of an aspect of something and in this case, could be a photograph of a game console, video gameplay footage, or a scan of a magazine page. Your selection of artifacts should include a diverse range of such components that support your hypothesis and engage audience interest. Your artifacts must be drawn from the history of games from the 6th console generation or before (e.g. Xbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2, Dreamcast), and can include game consoles, accessories, and related magazines.

Identify materials
Digitize materials if materials need to be digitized (e.g. arrange to take photos or capture gameplay).
Develop a research question
Organize materials in a way that explores a research question
Post materials in a way that demonstrates an answer to the research question
Choosing a Topic

Your topic should be generated similarly to a research paper but focused on a thesis grounded in specific historical artifacts. This should direct you towards questions of how certain genres of games evolved, comparisons of how different producers used the medium, who was able to produce games, etc.

Summary page:

To submit the assignment, fill out this summary and ensure the URL is accessible to me during the grading period.

Exhibit title: 
URL
Exhibit topic: 
Question your exhibit answers/addresses: 
The “answer” to this question. The thesis of your exhibit: 
What is the breakdown of your exhibit? How will the answer/addressing be shown? In a few sentences summarize how you organized the material of your exhibit.
Exhibit audience: What are considerations you have to make for those audiences (i.e.: an audience of experts would require different reference points than an audience of generalists. Who is your imagined audience? How are you developing the exhibit for them?):
Collaboration: Briefly describe who, if anyone, you worked with to capture artifacts for your exhibits.
 

Bibliography:

This is a standard academic reference page of any sources quoted or paraphrased in your exhibit materials. Follow the APA guide to formatting and structuring this. 

Your online exhibit grade will be based on:

selection of appropriate topic and relevant items to support your topic
explanation of the exhibit's items and background information
overall exhibit design
proper grammar, style, spelling and citations
The topic is extremely salient given the course material and the selection of artifacts totally complements the overall thesis, which makes a strong and interesting case.
The prose flows extremely well from the introduction through each artifact. The technical method used to frame the artifact is a great use of the medium and the combination of artifact and prose is very well presented.
Very well written. The artifact is very clear in how it supports the point you're making and well-edited / framed to the point being made.
